Beauty and the beast
Chapter 1
The beast.
The white glare of an. Indian sun was beginning to beat on the parade-ground at Nhilpoor. The English regiment, which
been summoned for early drill, was detained to witness a painful piece of discipline, which the authorities trusted would
prove a salutary warning. A young soldier named Thwaite, a fine, manly fellow in spite of his faults, had, in the course
of several years' service, risen to the rank of sergeant. This desirable result was the effect of energy, daring, an
obliging temper when he was not crossed, and a clever aptitude for a soldier's duties, born of mother-wit, sharpened by
a rather better education than was usual in his grade. Unfortunately his merits were counterbalanced by defects, which
not even the promotion he had attained, calculated as it was to open his eyes to the side on which his bread was buttered,
had been able to check. He was as rash and reckless as he was dauntless and enduring. He had an uncertain temper, spoilt
by what was understood to have been a hard youth. He was careless of the excesses into which he fell in bad company.
He had an elder sister, married to a cousin of the same name in the troop, but in spite of her efforts, and not with
standing the staid example of her husband, who was a pattern of prudence, though Will Thwaite had been going from bad to
worse lately, and had indulged in one fit of dissipation after another. They were beyond being hidden; they could not
escape punishment; and both offence and punishment were totally incompatible with his position as a noncommissined officer
    His best friends had grown weary of plead-ing for grace, which was so often abused. A court-martial could only come
to one conclusion, especially as the Colonel of the regiment was somewhat of a martinet, and had never entertained any
great favour for will. The commanding officer resolved the sergeant should be made an example of.
    It was in anticipation of the spectacle that a certain solemn stir went through the mechanically controlled body,
drawn out in strict order. The culprit was brought forth to confront the degradation the signal was given for the usual
official to remove, in the presence of the man's comrades and subordinates, the stripes on the arm of his jacket,
which were the token of his grade.
    Till then Will Thwaite had stood like a statue, though his face was sullen and lowering. But the moment he felt the
offensive touch on his arm he sprang aside, and before anyone could anticipate the action, tore the stripes from his
coat by one wrench, and flung them right in the face of the Colonel, with a savage shout:
    Take that from a better man than your-self!
    Blank consternation was the first result of the lawless defiance. The deed was such a gross breach of military
discipline, such an unseemly violation of authority, that the poor Colonel gasped, and could hardly believe his senses,
While the junior officers and soldiers gaped in harmony with their senior's gasp: and for an instant every energy was
paralyzed.
    Thwaite did not take any advantage of the second's pause to attempt a flight, which would have been as mad as what
had gone before it. He been as mad as what had gone before it. He stood at ease with the angry grin still on his face,
till the whole company recovered themselves. He was put under arrest a second time, without offering any resistance.
and marched back to durance, while the dismissed soldiers formed into groups and discussed the event of the day, filling
the barrack yard with subdued commotion.
    The orator who spoke beneath his breath with greatest horror of the outrage which had been committed, and wagged his
head with most reprobation and foreboding, was Lawrie Thwaite, Will's who, as might have been expected, carried to his
poor wife, said to he devoted to her brother, the news of his fresh, unpardonable outbreak, and the imminent danger in
which he stood of something to begin with still worse than being drummed out of the regiment. A gabbling straggle
sought out Jenny, and, without preparation, divulged to her the miserable incident.
    Jenny wrung her hands, prematurely withered and drawn by much washing to the troop. Well might she lament and cower
in apprehension. The next court-martial weighed out the terrible, but warrantable, almost compulsory retribution, that
Will Thwaite should undergo a certain number of lashes before being dismissed from the service.
                               CHAPTER 2
                     JENNY'S STRUGGLES.
Jennny Thwaite, a hard-featured, hard-working middle-aged woman, was more attached to her brother than to her husband.
Indeed, it was alleged that she had married Lawrie Thwaite principally that she might have a chance of following Will
to India and being still near him. The reason for this perversion of natural regard might exist in the fact that while
poor Will, smart as he was, had sore need of such protection as she could afford him, there was no question that Lawrie
Thwaite was quite capable of taking care of himself. In addition, Jenny had never borne a child, which might have broken
the old allegiance, while will had all along been like her child, seeing that he was nearly fifteen years her junior.
She had looked after him in these old hard days of his youth; she had toiled to procure for him an education that might
be more in keeping with his future that with his present fortunes; she had suffered the keen disappointment of seeing him
grow up wild and unsteady, until he forsook the trade to which he had been apprenticed only leaving Jenny to pay the
forfeit and enlisted into an infantry regiment under marching orders for India. Then Jenny consented to marry her cousin,
who was in the some regiment, while he stoutly denied ever having decoyed Will into the service.
Lawrie was more having been on the look-out for a careful, managing wife, who might wash, or do dressmaking, of perhaps
keep the girls' school, and so greatly multiply his resources, he had hovered about Jenny Thwaite with matrimonial
intentions for years.
Jenny had not been a weak woman so as to remain blind to her boy's delinquencies;
had rated and reproached him, and sometimes was not on speaking terms with him for days;
but it was all for his good. She loved him faithfully through his worst scrapes, and was secretly serving him, even while
she was submitting to be shunned by him; nay, taking the initiative in declining for a brief space to hold intercourse
with him. She was the first to hail a sign of amendment; she was extravagantly proud of his promotion, insisting that he
would never stop till he got a commission, which would be no more than his due, would be as well that Lawrie had served
his time before that day came round.
    The process of retrogression, even when it reached its extremity, did not shake Jenny's fidelity; instead, it knit
her so closely ot her brother that she ceased to protest against his folly. Was it a time to be picking out holes in his
coat and pointing to his errors, when the poor lad was in trouble and brought to so sorry a pass that he needed every
grain of love to fight for him, cleave to him, and, if it were yet possible, save him?
   Jenny would leave Lawrie to play the cautious, cold-hearted, judicial part to draw back in case of incurring reflected
blame, to stand aloof, though with a decent show of reluctance to join in the chorus of blame. Neither did Jenny greatly
censure her husband for his conduct. It belonged to the poor man's nature, as she had known when she married him; and so
long as he did not propose to stop her in the most desperate exertions she might undertake on her brother's behalf,
according to the original bargain between the pair, honest Jenny could not see that she had any title to sit upon her
husband.
    It might have been otherwise if Jenny's conviction of her husband's fulfilling his bargain had been shaken, or if she
guessed that the great secret of her independence lay in the meanness, rather than in the phlegmatic magnanimity of the
man she had married, that he dreaded to offend her high spirit mortally, lest he should lose the constant harvest of her
skilled work which found many channels of outlet. Jenny never dreamt of a separete purse, neither would the scapegrace
Will have consented to touch a farthing of her wages, so long as he could work for his own hand.
    Jenny moved heaven and earth to deliver her brother from the barbarous infliction of the lash. She knew well that it
would be the death of his moral nature, the brand that would enter his soul, even if his high-strung physical system
recovered from the shock it would receive. If it had been possible to administer the punishment vicariously, without Will's
knowledge, she could have been wrought up to bare her brave shoulders like the Russian women to the knout, and like another
Godiva have faced ignominy, so that the victim, who was her own flesh and blood, her darling since her early girlhood,
might be permitted to go free. That resource was impossible. All that Jenny could do, and she had only a few days to do
it in, was to wander day and night, praying for a commutation of the sentence. She appealed here and urged there. She
worked upon the chaplain to draw up a petition for her. She vexed the souls of men with her sometimes speechless,
but never-failing importunity, and the dry-tongued anguish of her despair. She declined to be repulsed, though she had
been rather a proud little woman in her better days. She won over gentle, illogical, enthusiastic ladies to espouse her
cause, and to plague their husbands never to mind precedents, not even justice, but for dear mercy's sake to grant Jenny
Thwaite's prayer. She was the most careful washer and clear-starcher, the best darner, the nicest sewer of plain seam, the
most trustworthy nurse on a pinch they had ever found. The whole men would fare the worse, and every officer's household
be in straits, if they drove Jenny beside herself. Why, the poor woman must go mad; she would die on their hands, they
would have two ruined lives, two deaths at their door. Was that what their stupid, stubborn bondage to form wanted?
Colonel Bell was not so much as a scratch on the face; and was a poor fellow to be treated like a brute,  because, for
once in his life, he had forgotten himself, and behaved like a baby? Did not Bertie or Charlie throw his toys at anyone
who came in his way at papa himself, when the child was in a rage? Don't speak to the ladies of the demoralizing effect
on the other soldiers, the loss of prestige where the rule of the officers was concerned, of mutiny, and insurrection,
and chaos come again. No such horrors ensued in the nursery from making as little as possible of Bertie or Charlie's
naughtiness, and leaving the child to come to himself.
    Jenny wound up her vehement representations by what sounded in the circumstances like wild romances, of the Thwaites
having grand connections, with the likelihood that the family would rise in the world some that the family would rise in
the world some day, when certainly the officers would be sorry for the cruel, base punishment they had inflicted. These
unreasonable and passionate statements on the whole did harm to the woman's suit. Nobody had time to ask or give
confirmatory datails of the improbable story, which appeared to rest on no foundation, unless it were a little vapouring
of will in his cups, and some wary conceited bragging on the part of his brother-in-law. It was either a credulous delusion
or a pure invention. It actually impaired the respectability of the pleader.
   In the meantime, Jenny had no encouragement from those most interested in the affair.
   It is no use, Jenny,' said her husband with ostentatious dismalness,  doing little to second her in her frantic exertoins
   'Never mind, Jen,' said poor Will, when she visited him. 'It will soon be over,' turning away to hide a shuddering recoil.
'Everything will soon be over, and you'll be well rid of a rascal who has only been a trail and grief to you.'
                                  CHAPTER 3
                                  THE RESCUE AND THE SACRIFICE.
Jenny's fond, piteous struggles proved in vain. Law and order were inflexible. The offence was too outrageous. The welfare
of the British army was at stake. Will Thwaite was to be flogged, though many a kind heart resented the necessity, rueful
under it.
    The morning of the flogging rose as sultry as the day on which Will had grossly insulted his commanding officer in
the discharge of his duty. Will never forgot the airless heat of his. cell as he lay on his face and awaited the summons
to public shame and torture; compared to the last the sharp shock and sting of a pistol-bullet, and the smart of a cut
from a sabre, of which he bore the scars, could have been as nothing.
    Jenny did not lie on her face idle, though her door was shut, and it was in shrouding darkness that she busied herself
with a dumb intensity of preparation, in gathering together fomentations, unguents, rags, and bandages, and in filling a
disused kit with wearing apparel and provisions for a journey.
    But the post-runners came in before the hour for drill, and among the letters for the Colonel was one from a firm of
London lawyers, which filled the scrupulous man with disturbance and dismay. There could be no mistake about it. He knew
by name the respectable firm that applied to him, and their communication was carefully attested.
    The laws of the service were as the laws of the Medes and Persians. Never had there been a more scandalous contempt
of discipline than that shown by Will Thwaite on the parade-ground. But though the welfare of the British army ought to
be the first consideration to Colonel Bell's ideas to be said in support of aristocratic privileges and prejudices.
Good heavens! a baronet and squire of many acres and long descent could not be flogged in the presence of a regiment of
soldiers; some of whom represented his social equals and future associates, while the rest were his undoubted inferiors.
This was what the matter had come to.
    The lawyer's letter to Colonel Bell contained the document which to buy off William Thwaite, private in the regiment,
on the grounds that he had succeeeded to the rank and property of a grand-uncle, and was now Sir William Thwaite, of
Whitehills, in Eastham, and it was not fit either for the rank and file of the army, or for the homour able should
continue a day longer than was necessary  a private a soldier, even in the most select and distinguished regiment.
    What would the firm think if the tidings were flashed to them that the baronet and squire was about to receive his
deserts in the form of corporeal punishment?
    No, it could not be; the sentence, stringent as the obligation was, must be quashed whether on the plea that the
negotiation for Sir William's discharge had gone a certain length before he committed the offence, whether that Will
Thwaite and Sir William; of Whitehills, were two different and distinct individuals, or from some other flaw in the
indictment.
    An informal council or court of astonished, scandalized officers was held, Colonel Bell assumed the responsibility
with the War office, and it was announced to a yet wider circle of open-eyed, open-mouthed, interested persons, that no
flogging was to be performed. For William Thwaite, or more properly, Sir William Rhwaite, had already ceased to belong
to the service, therefore his misconduct had been dealt with under a false assumption. If he were still to be held
accountable it must be before another tribunal.
    The news found Sir William too stunned to take in its meaning beyond the two items that he was delivered at the
eleventh hour from indelible obloquy, and that he was at liberty to depart from scenes which had become odious to him.
    He staggered out into the blinding sunshine, doggedly enduring the measured explanations and shy, awkward
congratulations of his recent superiors and judges, and readier good wishes of his former allies. He went straight to
his former allies. He went straight to his sister's without waiting for an invitation from Lawrie Thwaite, who, to be
sure, looked more taken aback with the extraordinary traordinary change in his brother-in-law's fortunes even than Colonel
Bell had appeared. The Colonel, after the first shocked sence of incongruity and confusion, detestable to a man of his
precise cast of mind, did not testify any vindictiveness of unwillingness to admit that the scales had undergone a sudden
reversal in a comrade's case. But Lawrie  shrank into himself, looked blue and green, and could hardly furbish up the
thankfulness that was called for from him.
    'Did you ever see a chap hang his head as if his nose was bleeding, becouse his brotherin-law weren't walloped, and
had come into a pot of money and a handle to his name? It ain't always not lost what a friend gets,
remarked a shrewd observer.
    'Could this fellow have counted on any chance of his coming into the succession?' He is a cousin of the other beggar's,
and he might have calculated on this Will's never getting the better of the beastly consequences of his precious performance,
drinking himself to death, or shooting himself. I have known a an pull the trigger on less provocation,' surmised a more
thoughtful speculator on the event, which was the talk of the station for weeks to come. 'Well, I for one am glad that
the luck has fallen to the first. He has the thews and sinews of a man; a clean-made, well-knit fellow, and would have
been a first-rate soldier if he could have learnt self-control. I remember his dragging Roberts out of the enemy's range
in the encounter in the Little Ghaut, when he first came out, and we had some brisk business doing. But he was always
getting into a mess, and this last spurt of insolence threatened to put on the finishing-touch. He will go to the dogs
as it is, taking a little longer time perhaps.
    Nobody save the two saw and heard the ecstasy of Jenny's recovery of her brother and recognition of his changed estate
    Nobody - Jenny included doubted that Sir William would immediately start that England, where much business, the irksome
ness of which would be splendidly gilded, must await him. The lawyers had sent ample funds for his travelling expenses,
and there was nothing to detain him. Indeed, Sir William and his comrades had rubbed shoulders with such an extremely
awkward contretemps that they felt mutually abashed and inclened to get rid of each other.
    But a sorrowful, peremptory impediment sprang up on the eve of Will's starting. sprang up on the eve of Will's starting.
Jenny was worn by long years of work, and her constitution had not been improved by the climate of India. She was further
spent by the burning anxiety and incredible exertions of the last few days, in the hottest of the hot season. She fell a
ready victim to the fever hovering about the native town, and the disease from the commencement assumed a hopeless aspect
    There was no want of interest and sympathy. The mingled sensations which Sir William's story had excited relieved
themselves in a crowd of attentions to the invalid. Jenny had many more shapes of jelly, bottles of wine, and preparations
of iced milk sent to her than she could have possibly swallowed, though her short illness had been swallowed, though her
short illness had been indefinitely prolonged. Her former employers waylaid Sir William and Lawrie Thwaite every time
they stirred abroad, with inquiries, offers of service, even proposals to come and share the task of nursing the patient.
These demonstrations proceeded quite as much from the romance of the situation, with the melancholy nature of poor Jenny's
final part in Sir William's good fortune, as from interested motives.
    Lawrie Thwaite did not fail in attention to his wife, though he had never recovered form the combined shocks of his
kinsman's dishonour and honour. He was a plain man, he said, and could not stand such flights of fortune. But he knew a
good wife when he had her. He was persuaded drawing the deduction from his own disposition, that it would be the last
blow; everything would be up with him if Jenny died, and not only deprived him of her services, but severed the near
connection between him and Sir William 'Drat Will Thwaite, that he should bear a title like and alderman or a dook.'
    But jenny, who had always been courageous and self-denying , was resigned to her fate and the will of God. She tried
best to meet and overcome the passionate rebellion of her brother. Her heart was still so full of gratitude and joy on
his account that she had no room for sorrow herself. It appeared as if she had come to see that all was for the best,
and could feel an unearthly satisfaction in this last offering up of herself for the lad.
    'You won't want me any more, Will; I should only have been in your way she said faintly.
    Jen, he protested in his vehement depths of love and sorrow, you know I would rather have lived in the most miserable
den, and had nothing except potatoes and salt to keep me from starving, with you, than without you be master of the finest
house in the kingdom and have grand furniture and delicate dishes at my command. So don't go for to leave me, Jen-don't,
if you ever cared a farthing for a scamp who was never worth the trouble you took for him, and the fondness you wasted on
him.
    NO, no, my deark; I have my reward when I think of you as a gentleman among the best. I do know that it is sore for you
to give me up, for we've come through the hards together, that we're; but we've seen the last of poverty and knocking about,
and it is all for the best. A pretty like figure I should have made as a baronite's sister! Why, Will raising herself up
with difficulty, a smile on her wan face you'll get a fine young lady gor your wife, as good as she is fine. You won't
miss your sister Jen, though you kind heart will never let you forget her.
    I don't want a fine young lady, said Will hoarsely. 'What should I do with such cattle? They would only laugh at me
and despise me. I only want you, Jen.'
    'Ah, lad, you don't know what is good for you. Rest content: there is One as knows, and He don't make no mistakes,
though it ain't the thing we fancy we want He gives us mostly. But there is something you can do for me, lad, before I go
single favour I'm bold to ax.
    'Ax all I have, and you are welcome to it. Don't put your request in that way, said Will reproachfully. Nay, it is the
fitting way, since you are the head of the house sir William, no less dwelling on the words in her weak voice with loving
triumph. 'If I am not the first to do you honour, who should be? But I ha'n't too much breath to spare. Will, dear, it is
the drink that has been your ruin; not that you're ruined far from it and you ain't a sot God forbid! but you've gone your
own way, and not been too peticklar about the company you kep judging others as you did yourself, like a innocent igh-
spirited chap not always looking out for number one, keeping out of mischief yourself, and leaving others to pay the piper,
like poor Lawrie, and the drink has done the rest; when it was on you it has driven the wit clean out, and made
your temper work like mad. Promise you will have no more to do with the drink, for it tempts gentle and simple, in one
shape or another, as I've seen in some of the tip-top bungalows, where I've gone to do a day's washing. Your being Sir
Wil'am and a squire will not keep you straight, but will only make your fall the greater, if you let the drink get the
better of you. I'll not rest in my grave if that day come. Promise me, Will, you'll have done with the drink, and
I'll die appy
    I swear I'll never put my lips to a glass from this day forth, if that will content you. It is the least I can do
for you, that has done everything for me since mother left me a whining baby, the young man vowed solemnly.
    And I can answer for your keeping your word that's my good lad, declared the dying woman, with growing feebleness and
perfect satisfaction.
Will roused her afresh.
    Is there anything more I can do for you, Jen? he implored not for myself, but for yourself or any other person you
mind about Bless the lad! what should I desire now but to ave him sitting there, where my eyes can fall upon him, the last
thing. Well, there is, Lawrie. I doubt poor Lawrie will miss me a bit muttered Jenny, rather in a tone of benevolent
consideration than of keen sympathy. You might spare a trifle and settle summat on Lawrie. He's your cousin, as well as
my goodman a poor relation of the family, such as you were wont to be when no helping-hand was held out to you; but it's
forget and forgive where I'm going. With that and his persion, When his time is out, he'll fare well enough, without feeling
the likes of me gone, and no more money coming in to eke out his pay.
    He may have the half of all I'm to get for your sake, Jen I don't feel to care about it, said the new squire in his
despondency.
    The half of your inheritance! Have you taken leave of your senses, lad? cried Jenny, almost springing back to life and
Jenny, almost springing back to life and energy at the extravagance of the proposal. What would Lawrie Thwaite do with a
gentleman's allowance? You could never make a gentleman of him. He would only hoard it, and run the risk of being robbed
and murdered, or be cheated out of it by some fair-tongued scoundrel, for Lawrie ain't wise, though I've heard him called
a wiseacre. Between you and me he's greedy and cunning, poor soul! but there ben't no great harm in him, and he ha'n't
out of your abundance; stick to that, and I'ont be displeased or troubled with the fear that I did wrong in marrying
Lawrie to follow you, and so mebbee hung a millstone round your neck. We're but weak critters,
and don't see and inch before out noses. For his sake as well as for yours, let it be no more than is in keeping with
what he has been used to, and what he needs. It is another thing with you, who are to be a grand gentleman, a benefactor
to your kind, like old General Leigh with his soldiers and the natives. You remember him and the monster funeral he had?
Ay, but I would have liked to see you at the height of your glory! cried Jenny, beginning to wander. "I would have liked
to have seen Whitehills just once, and then crept down into the dark hole. Whitehills, with its floors of gold and its
gates of pearls, and you among your ivory and your apes and peacocks." But we'll meet again in a better place, Will a
better place, where there's no more parting
    Jenny was dead and buried. There had been a most respectable attendance at her funeral. It seemed perfectly natural
that her brother, Sir William, should act as chief mourner, paying his sister all the respect which she had so richly
merited in his first appearance in public after his accession to rank and fortune. The company were actually at the grave's
mouth before an awkward omission was remarked. The widower had not joined the little cavalcade.
    Will took himself severely to task because he had shut himself up with his sorrow and only come out when he was
sommoned to walk at the head of the coffin. He went immediately on his return to seek his brotherin-law, and take the first
steps in the arrangement which had been agreed upon between will Thwaite and his sister. It was too late;
the wretched man had hanged himself.
    The catastrophe was classed as a singular instance of wedded love and despair in a man who had not been demonstrative
in his partner during her lifetime. Paradoxical, pensive spirits pointed to it as a case of repressed emotion and
misunderstood devotion.
    The sorry truth was that Laurence Thwaite had been goaded beyond the utmost Thwaite had been goaded beyond the utmost
stretch of his endurance by the cruel chapter of accidents, which had thwarted all his crafty plans and secret hopes. Why
had events happened so promiscuously, and yet with such horrible fortuitousness for Will? Why had his prodigal course
been stopped, before folly and the climate had sent him post-haste and betimes beyond the succession to a baronetcy
and anguish of the flogging been remitted? Why had old Sir john Thwaite, after he had lived beyond his three-score-twenty
years, not hung out just another month, but insisted on dying in the very nick of time? Why had the post-runners not
slackened their speed and delayed the mail, if but for one hour? And now the last misfortune had happened. manager, had
taken it upon her to die out of hand. There had been no love lost between him and Will in the past. will would seize
the opportunity of Jenny's death and his departure to enter on his possessions, to get rid of Lawrie, as Lawrie, in
similar circumstances, would have got rid poor pay, with the prospect of greater indigence in his old age, after he had
been let down from a condition of comparative comfort, and shut out from the intoxicating prospect of a great in
inheritance.
    It was more than the miserable man could bear. He counted himself hardly dealt with, both by God and man; his brain
reeled, and he flung up the game in a sudden fury, which altogether overcame his caution and deliberation
    As for Will, he was cut to the heart by what struck him as the ghastly result of his swift, selfish unfaithfulness to
Jenny's trust ; though he could not pretend to regret, on any other grounds than those of horror and pity, his kinsman's
fate. It sank into Will's spirit that no good had come, ot would come, of his prosperity. It had saved his worthless
credit and life, but it had cost jenny her life, and it had driven Lawrie Thwaite to destruction.
The THwaites of whitehills were one of the oldest families in Eastham, but, like many another old family, all its members
had not preserved its dignity intact, or behaved with the decorum which ought to have accompanied blue blood. Two generations
before, a foolish lad had alienated his kinsfolk by a low marriage with the daughter of one of the keepers. He had
consummated his evil-doing in the eyes of the head of the house, by declining to come begging for pardon, and to submit
to the authority which should mete out to him at once his punishment and such assistance as might enable him to make the
best of his bad bargain and refrain from disgracing his family further. He was only too willing in his refractoriness
to drink as he had brewed; but since such culprits are not often gifted with the strength of character and determination
of mind which mark the successful architects of their own fortunes, the drink he consumed grew very thin indeed. He sank
lower and lower in the social scale, and ended by becoming a considerable burden on his father-in-law, the keeper. He had
as a matter of course, been dismissed from Whitehills; but as he was a capable, industrious man, master of his calling,
and had not been privy to his daughter's love and ambition, he succeeded without much difficulty in getting employment
in another part of the county.
    The matter, though a source of mortification and pain to the Thwaites of that day, was of less consequence, apart
from family pride and affection, inasmuch as the delinquent was not the heir, and had more than one elder brother.
    There was no lack of sons then at Whitehills; but time sometimes works havoc among the strongest of such stays. Time
was rather slow in its work in this instance, and as a cousin who has descended in the social ranks is not like a brother
fallen into low life, the successors of the erratic Thwaite who was at the botton of the mischief were still more left to
their illustrious relatives.
    The poor Thwaites, inheriting the good and evil of the paternal temper, had the rare grace not to obtrude themselves
on the notice of their loftier kindred, though the plebeian branch kept up the recollection of their descent. One of
them had even gone so far as to make, on one of his few holidays, at a considerable sacrifice, an incognito journey in
third-class carriges and on the tramp, to gaze, from a respectful distance, with gloating, covetous eyes on what, it
picturesque language, might be called the cradle of his race. He kept the expedition jealously concealed from people who
had even a nearer interest in it. No doubt it added to the liveliness of the interest, that the news had filtered somehow
to those most concerned of the gradual sweeping away fo the elder branch of the stock. Deaths at home and abroad, old
bachelors whose rights perished with them, chidless couples equally without representatives, left the last Sir john, in the
alien Thwaites for the preservation of the title and land in connection with the original name. He had no power by the
terms of the entail to will away the inheritance even so fat as heirs female, while there existed the remotest heirs male
who could prove their descent and produce their registers.
    In view of the exigency of the situation, Sir John seized the opportunity of marrying twice first in early manhood and
again late in life. A third opportunity was not vouchsafed to him. In the first instance, the children died in infancy.
In the second, the sole child born was a boy, weak both in body and mind.
    There seemed no resource for Sir John save to make himself acquainted with his poor relations, and cultivate them
diligently while there was yet time to provide a decent wearer of his honours. But the old man was of an arrogant,
narrow temper. He clung to the last, with as much passionate pride as human feeling, to the hope that his poor boy, with
all the aid which his position could give him, would grow stronger and wiser as he grew older, and when that trust was
stamped out by the death of the little fellow, the father would not consent to put a low bumpkin in his son's place.
He Washed his hands of the whole matter, the error of his ancestor and the misfortune of an illiterate, underbred master
of Whitehills. Sir John peevishly refused to do what he could to set the wrong right. If Providence had chosen it was
to be so, why should he plague himself to concoct a partial remedy? On the contrary, he did his best to become enamoured
of the Frenchwoman's motto, 'Apres moi le deluge.'
    All that Sir John would attempt for the credit of the name and the good of the place was to live as long as he could
and keep the interloper out till his last breath. This he contrived to do till he was an octogenarian with four or five
years to spare.
    The Thwaites with the puddle in their blue blood had not been longer lived or more productive of heirs than the main
line had shown itself. At last the inferior branch resolved itself into Will and Jenny Thwaite, The son and daughter of
the elder grandson of Dicky Thwaite, who fell from his station by marrying the keeper's daughter, and Lawrie Thwaite, the
grandson of the younger son of the same worthy. There was no confusion of numbers or difficulty in tracing the proper
descendant from the man who formed the link to the baronetcy and estate. Perhaps the wonder was that no long-sighted
individual had anticipated the end, and insisted on advancing money, or otherwise bettering the condition of the future
Sir William. But will and Jenny would have looked shyly on such overtures, and their going out to India put temptation
more out of their reach.
    Sir William had never seen Whitehills before the day that he drove down to it with his lawyer, one of the leanding
members of the well-reputed firm, a clever little gentleman like man, who honestly wished to do his best by his strange
client, but could not make much of him, as he watched him curiously at a crucial epoch of his history. Sir William was
a personable enough young fellow of five or six-and-twenty. He was not above five feet eight inches in height; but his
sinewy figure was well developed. His carriage was good, though it partook a little of the ramrod; but that defect was
sometimes to be found in the bearing of field-marshals. Thanks to his soldiering, Sir William was delivered from the
clumsy, loutish shuffle or slouch of a day-labourer or a mechanic, and from the jerking gait or skip of a journeyman
tradesman or counter-jumper. His close-cropped hair was chestnut; the florid colouring of his face had not yet lost the
bronze of India and the tan of a sea voyage. It was a complexion which was not a bad match for that of a college
undergraduate who went in for athletic sports, or of a country gentleman who had his year strictly divided into fishing,
shooting, and hunting seasons.
    In some respects the lad looked younger than his years, though he was of manly make. In others in a slight massiveness
peculiar to his features, and in what had become the in flexible gravity of is aspect, he gave one the idea of maturer
age than he had attained. The best and the most striking things in his face consisted of two marked traits. The natural
sweep of his hair made an ample corner on each side of his forehead, disclosing a full brow above, well-apart eyes and
eye-brows, which lent an impression of honesty and frankness, as well as of intellectual capacity. His eyes were dark
blue, and though they sparkled oftener than they melted, would have gone a long way to confer beauty on a woman's face.
The worst points were incongruous and contradictory in the inferences to be drawn from them. The jaw inclined to dogged
squareness, While the chin was ill defined and boded weakness.
    Mr. Miles the lawyer, duting the necessary detention of Sir William in town, had in the most delicate manner suggested
an outfit in accordance with the change of rank. This and other considerate attentions had provoked no restiveness on the
part of their object, such as might have been apprehended from a feather-headed fool suddenly raised to an elevation
altogether beyond his level, with the etiquette of which he was necessarily unfamiliar. Sir  William adopted a tweed
morning-suit and a dinner-dress without making any difficult. What he did in trifles was a happy sign of what he might
accomplish in weightier matters. His mode of meeting the hints given him raised him in the opinion of the late Sir
John's agents. But the instructions could not be more than hints, for with all his rusticity and simplicity, there was
something about the heir which kept sensible, self-respecting men, gentlemen themselves, at a proper distance.
     On the other hand, there was nothing about Sir William which could force his prompters to look down upon him, while
they should be under the necessity of taking the upper hand with him. The lawyers found their client had fair parts, and
could understand what was explained to him, even though it had to do with business out of his accustomed rut. He had
received a very tolerable education in the three great primitive R's and of one R he had availed himself pretty considerably,
in what appeared, at first sight, untoward circumstances. He had a taste for reading, and in spite of his admitted wildness,
had taken advantage of the regimental library.
    Altogether, what with the gain of his foreign experience and military training granted that the last was in the ranks
he might at least hold his own, on the score of ordinary intellectual knowledge, with those young English gentlemen who
have no taste for the classics, have been plucked over and over again in their examinations, frequent stables and kennels
instead of drawing-rooms, and never open a book except the Field or Bell's life.
    Messrs. Miles and Dickinson were rather proud of their client. They had dreaded something very different; now they
augured quite hopefully of his future a quiet fellow, not at all without common-sense, which was better than uncommon
genius, who done with sowing his wild oats, and pulled up effectually so far as anybody could judge. He might not make
such a mess of the baronetcy and property as some very fine gentleman would have done. Manners, of course, he had none;
but no manners were a great improvement on bad manners. He had everything to learn there, but comparatively little to
unlearn. He had his drop of good blood, which people would be particularly ready to recognise, seeing it was now fitly
balanced by an old title and good landed property. The last, no agricultural depression, or vindictive policy of old
Sir Joun in granting long leases at low rents, and pensioning dependents inordinately, could greatly impair. In those
days, when landowners had a strong call to fall back into gentlemen farmers working their own land, against odds too, Sir
William might not be amiss as a plain country gentleman. Let him marry well and sauir faire to her finger-tips and be
amenable to his wife in those respects in which she was his superior, and there was no fear of him. He seemed a finish
fellow in the main, both in physique and morals.
    What puzzled and disconcerted Mr.Miles in his otherwise satisfactory charge, was the inflexible gravity and inscrutable
reserve with which Sir William made acquaintance with his prospects, and at last with his place. It was surely unnatural,
especially at his age, that he should express no rejoicing, hardly even satisfaction, at his accession. He had lost his
sister very recently, but the death of an elderly married woman, though she had brought him up, was not likely to affect
so deeply a young fellow with the ball at his foot.
    Sir William and Mr.Miles were driving over from the nearest station in a trap which the lawyer had appointed to be
ready fo them. He had thought it better not to order the Whitehills carriage to meet them, with its announcement that the
new master was come, and its proclamation of the news to everybody they might pass on the road. The wiser arrangement
was for Sir William to arrive without attracting particular attention. If a demonstration were demanded and found
desirable, let it come later, When everybody should be better acquainted and prepared for what was to happen. When Sir
William's wishes were asked on the subject, he emphatically acquiesced in Mr.Miles's judicious plan.
    The day was in spring, during blustering, but not uncheery March weather. The land scape was as flat as most of the
scenery of Eastham; but it was not without its charms in the absence of picturesqueness. It was wide and free, even to
its broad, rutted, wide and free, even to its broad, rutted, shaggy green lanes, in which a gipsy encampment, or the
evicted Shakers might pitch a tent or two, and still leave ample room for the small traffic, principally fo carts ot
waggons and day-labourers passing that way. There was a certain rugged sincerity in the unpretending homeliness of the
fields, together with a shade of sadness and sombreness oftener attributed to some descriptions of French, than to any
examples of English landscape.
    This suspicion of pathos had a complex origin. This corner of Eastham had never been in the van of agricultural
progress, and was as moderately productive as it was inadequately cultivated. It had plenty of well-preserved, carefully
stocked coverts for game, and bore a hunting reputation; but the low value of the land in other respects was evident,
not merely in the spaciousness and frequency of the lanes, but in the recurring wedges of ground covered with straggling,
grass and rushes.
    The country here was very scantily populated. Anything like market towns or villages worthy of the name were separated
by six or eight miles. In general, a village was represented by half-a-dozen thatched or tiled houses not even clustering
together, but standing with wide gaps, till the dwellings extended over a quarter of a mile by solitary road-side inns,
and road-side shops which partook of the character of Australian stores. As for the small, ancient, often beautiful churches,
they seemed to exist principally in connection with their rectories, sometimes equally beautiful in their mellow, red-brick
multiplicity of angles and luxuriant green draperies. The mansions of the nobility and gentry were largely conspicuous
by their absence, and the squires seats had sunk into farmhouses, dating in more than one instance from pre Elizabethan
times, which would have delighted the antiquary or the archaeologist. There was an arrested, isolated, half-clownish, poverty
stricken aspect primitive districts in England, though it had not been furnished with any barricade of hills or rivers.
    The working people, consisting almost entirely of day-labourers, the moment they had passed their first youth, looked
dull and apathetic, on rare occasions fierce and savage, as if heart and spirit had either been crushed out of them, or
raised into sullen revolt by the grinding toil necessary to keep soul and body together. It was probable that William
the Conqueror's Doomsday Book attested the region what with Norman castles, Saxon homesteads, and religious houses, squatters
on waste territory, fishers of pike and tench and shooters of wild-fowl-more populous and fully as thriving as it was to
day.
    So much for the sombreness of what was comparatively waste, half-inhabited and down-trodden in this section of Eastham;
but there was no gloom which a March wind and a changeful March sky could not relieve and carry off. There was a flavour
of liberty and a feeling of room to breathe in the uncrowded earth and the unvitiated, though somewhat moist and heavy
air. The patches of bue in the sky were matched by the springing green corn, and the banks studded with primroses.
There were more than primroses gemming the little watercourses and the long grass by the sides of the ditches; there were
such quantities of purple and white violets unseen by the travellers, that they lent a subtle sweetness to the scent of
decaying leaves and freshly turned-over earth. Rooks were wheeling and cawing over the ploughing and the sowing in the
fields. Small birds were stirring and chirping in the coverts, where the twigs of the underwood had swollen with the bourgeons
and acquired the bluish-purple tint of the bloom on a plum. Colts, calves, and lambs were kicking up their heels and
fricking inthe meadows.
    That is Whitehills, Sir William. Let me congratulate myself on being the first to point out to you the home of your
ancestors, said Mr. Miles, betrayed into tall language by the importance of the occasion, as the trap turned the bend of
the road which brought the mansion-house into view.
    Just so. Thank you, Sir said Sir William, who had not got over the last form of address, and who spoke mechanically
and almost as apathetically as any native. He did not even spring up to a standing position to catch a better glimpse of
the house; What he did see of it, perhaps, was not calculated to strike him much, unless he were blinded by the sense of
ownership. He was neither antiquary nor archaeologist, and what he distinguished between the leafless branches of the
trees of the park was only a long, low white building, with the remains of a moat in a gleaming pond a common feature of all
the old 'halls' in that part of Eastham. The house was not likely to impress his ignorant, underbred taste. He felt rather
inclined to contrast the reality a little sadly and sardonically with his poor Jen's delirious dreams in which she confounded
earth and heaven of floors of gold and gates of pearls.
    Mr Miles had cleared his throat and began to talk of the origin of the name. There were no hills in Eastham, and hardly
even one elevation here. Some people thought that "hills" referred to remote cromlechs or mounds over illustrious dead,
whether Danes or Normands, Saxons or Britons, and that the adjective 'white' meant ether the unsullied purity of their
patriotism, or the clear light of that land to which their souls had fled.
    Old Sir John had pensioned his domestics so liberally, that they had retired in a body, for the most part, to enjoy
the idleness and domesticity secured to their declining years. One or two, who had been more Lady Thwaite's servants than
Sir John's, went to form the nucleus of a comfortable establishment for the well-jointured widow at the dowager-house of
Netherton, four miles off. Mr Miles had taken care that a new staff should be put in office, and had enlarged to his wife
on the great gain of a discreet butler and a staid, efficient housekeeper. The first performance fo these important minor
actors in the drama was perfectly satisfactory, and did credit to Mrs. Miles's selection. They behaved with the silent,
attentive civility which was all that was wanted from them. If they could practise imperturbability in addition to the
quiet discharge of their duties, it might be as well; though Mr. Miles began to hope more and more that Sir William would
not from the beginning tax too severely the nerves of his domestics. or outrage their standards. No doubt a gentleman from
the ranks might hold his distance from the inferiors with whom he would come in constant contact. For that matter, these would
hardly have held him their social equal of old. But Mr. Miles was fain to anticipate better things from Sir William.
    The heir had crossed the fine old hall, really a choice specimen of a low-roofed, but spacious, many-recessed entrance
hall, where black and white marble had preceded tiles, and a great fireplace, sending forth a ruddy glow of light and heat,
diffused a grateful warmth, that took out the sting implanted by the March winds, and offered a kind of physical welcome
home.
    From the equally balmy atmosphere of a corridor, rich in pictures, cabinets, and the superseded Lady Thwaite's fancy
in flowerstands and low ottomans, Sir William had entered the library, with its entire lining of books, its classic busts.
and faint perfume of generations of culture tansmitted by the medium of old Russia leather. It had been Sir Joun's study,
though he was neither a scholar nor a student, and it had never struck him as out of keeping with its possessor. But it was here that
the sense of the contrast between his past and present position seized upon Sir John's successor and staggered him.
    It was easy enough to guess that the change might be too great to be pleasant, though none save Will Thwaite himself
knew the whole story of that Nhilpoor, where he had lain on his face groaning, awaiting the brutal punishment of the lash.
The scene rose up before him with sickening, revolting vividness. Just so it would arise and fill him with a kind of dire
bewilderment and terror as of discovery, exposure, and the awakening from a mad beguiling bream, on many a future occasion,
which would otherwise have been among the gladdest and brightest experiences of his life. Not the den at Nhilpoor alone,
for that had not been the first instance of his lying under arrest in a dog-hole, neither had he been a martyr to military
tyranny and his commanding officer's persecution. He had deserved all he had got and more. The gulfs of low debauchery in
which he had been sinking deeper and deeper, from which Jen had striven in vain to warm and snatch him, stood out as plainly
written in letters of fire on his brain. From the moment he had bent over Jen's bed and known himself powerless
to save her, his remorse for those grievous sins against her devotion, which had cost her life, smote him with throes of
self-disgust, convulsing his nature and threatening to remain an indelible accusing record on his conscience, quickening
any original sensitiveness, which had been hardening for years, and rendering it morded for life. He could not agree
with her that she would have cut but a poor figure wherewith to adorn his elevation in rack. If that were true, then perish
the elevation, for he knew, if none else did, how far she was his superior. He had slain the creature who had done everything
for him, and was so much better than he. It was over her grave that he had stepped to his promotion. He had even in his wretched
self-engrossment neglected her last charge and suffered Lawrie to perish. If it were not for his pledge to Jen, he would
not care what became of him when everybody was singing out the mocking lie that he had been so lucky in comimg into a
fortune and all that rubbish. But for Jen's sake he must keep his word, and deny himself to the last the one antidote to
his misery. He must die game and sober.


                        CHAPTER 4

Sir William had paused on the threshold of the library, and Mr. Miles, who was watching his companion, saw him get first
red and then white, and hang his head. THe next moment the master of the house walked to one of the windows, and, as if
to mask any disturbance he had betrayed, asked, in the slow, measured speech which attaches to speakers who weigh every
word they utter:
    "What is that house to the right? Who occupies it?"
     "There is only one huse within sight, I think," said Mr. Miles, in the easy, unaffected tone he sought ot establish
between the two, joining the speaker as he spoke. That is Lambford; it belings to Lord Fermor. He is in his datage, and
Lady Fermor rles for him. She is your nearest neighbour. I am sorry to say she cannot be called a good neighbour.
    Sir William's curiosity was easily satisfied.
    Narurally it was not the first time that the lawyer had dined with his client. Mr Miles had already found the opportunity
of noting two things. One was that the young Baronet conducted himself very much according to ordinary rules. He had come
home first-class, and, being surrounded by an odour of good fortune, his presence had been welcomed instead of tabooed at
the table d'hote. He was too proud to subject himsrlf to ridicule by failing ro acquire habits which the practice of
a little observation and self-restraint could quickly teach him. A smart soldie. clean and neat to finicalness, tutored
to one species of etiquette, has always the making of a conventional gentleman in him, however far he may be from the
higher type, and Will Thwaite, apart from his fits of dissipation, had been a very smart soldier.
    The second peculiarity which had attracted Mr. Miles's attention was that Sir William drank nothing save water. Taken by surprise.s
the elder man was tempted to rally the younger gently, for the former was already doubtful whether the latter were a
fellow at whom his neighbours could safely poke fun. Are you a Good Templar? Have you taken the pledge?
    Sir William did not appear to see the joke. No, I am not, though there are some of the sort in India, he said with his
accustomed gravity; but I have taken a pledge, though it is not of the kind you mean.
    All right, answered Mr.Miles. Every man should judge for himself. At the same time he was reflecting in his own mind,
I wish you may keep it. Possibly these are the safest lines for you.
    So it was the butler, and not Mr. Miles, who received a shock from the man's master's decided waiving aside of his
attentions with, I don't want any wine.
    No wine, Sir William? I beg pardon, sir, but I think I must be mistaken. Do you mean neither sherry nor chablis, nor
hock? I have them all here with the liqueurs, and the claret and port later. Perhaps you prefer a liqueur first. Some
of the gentlemen I have been with always began with a liqueur.
    No Sir William stopped himself just in time from saying, No thank you, sir, to the black-coated dignitary hanging
anxiously on his words I drink nothing but water, my man, floundering into the opposite extreme of too affable familiarity this time.
YOu need not trouble to have out these things, indicating the old cut wine-glasses and decaters, with a fine indefferance, unless, of
course, stammering a little as he corrected himself, for the obligations of hospitality are strong in the class from which
he had just emerged, when any gentleman is here who drinks wine.
    The butler knew that his master had been a grub before he became a butterfly, but the sentence about the wines floored
the subordinate considerably. I say, he remonstrated with himself, I can't stand this. My man , indeed! from one who has
pipe-clayed his own belts and polished his own shoes. Why, the Dean called me as often Mr.Cumberbatch as not. Good
wages, light work, and time to one's self is all very well, and an inducement one's self is all very well, and
an inducement to put up with a master who has risen from the dirt, though he were the right heir, and is a likely
enough young gentleman to look at. When it comes to that we're all Adam's sons. But what are we coming to when wine
ain't countenanced at a squire and baronet's table? There will be no broken bottles of claret, or sherry, or nothin
for the hall-table; and beer will vanish next. We're to be tea-tottlers,if not saints. What about the plate? Is silver
or silver-gilt sinful? Are we all to eat off coarsest hearthenware, and sport sakccloth and ashes?
    From the caustic irony of his thoughts the reader may judge how deeply the butler was moved. Nevertheless Mr.
Cumberbatch was able to bring in a note on a salver, and present to bring in a note on a salver, and present it in
respectfully reproachful way to Sir William. He took it, opened and read it, and then handed it with a mystified air to his
companion; yet it was no more than one of those notes which fly about the world launched by idly busy hands, and do not
even require an answer.
    It had only one reason for making a mark on reaching its destination. It was the daintiest note Sir William had ever
received, written on black-edged note-paper like satin, supplied with both a crest and a monogram a tiny version of what,
in an enlarged form, had been shown and explained to Sir William as the two hounds in a leash under an oaktree, which
constituted the heraldic bearings of the Thwaites, together with a fanciful miniature A.T
    The clear writing was a little bold for so small an epistle, while it conveyed the frankest, most courteous, and
magnanimous of greetings.
    Dear Sir William (it said)
    I cannot help calling you so, and desiring to be the first to did you welcome to the charming old place, which I know
so well, and where I have been so happy. That you are in the room fo my dear husband and beloved child is only an
additional reason why I should have the most cordial interest in your welfare, if you will allow me to say so. I trust
I shall soon have the pleasure of seeing you, and knowing you as a friend and near neighbour.
    Believe my, dear Sir William,
        Yours sincerely,
            Ada Thwaite.
    Well, Sir William? said Mr. Miles tenta-tively, with smile, while he was turning
Over rapidly in his mind the considerations which the note suggested. What can she want? She does not intend to become Lady
Thwaite the Second by captivating young Sir William after she has disposed of old Sir John. Oh dear, no! She is a great
deal too astute, while she is too mild and well-bred an adventuress for so violent and vulgar a dodge. She must be ten
or fifteen years his senior. Mischief, not malice; pickings, not plunderings, are her cue. I know her of old. The prestige
og becoming, by the assertion of a prior right, first and best acquainted with the gentleman, and then of trotting him
out to the neighbourhood, on the qui vive for his arrival, if he turn out a decent specimen of resuscitated gentility,
will count for something. There may be certain dowager perquisites over and above teh bond, though she has a very pretty
jointure, and he is saddled with a life almost as good as his own on the property. She will have the use of his horses
when he does not require them, with offerings of game and fruit beyond what Netherton can produce. She will have the
advantage of continuing the first female influence at Whitehills till he gets a wife.
    Mr.Miles's speculations were interrupted. I suppose it is Sir John's widow, and it is good of her not to mind , said
Sir William slowly. But what am I to do about her? What does she expect me to do? I have no acquaintance with people of
her kidney. I am not fit to go into such company; at least, not yet a bit.
    It was as if Sir William had proposed to reply to note dashed off in a few minutes, by sitting down at his desk, squaring
his arms, and inditing with care and deliberation, and not without the assistance of a dictionary, a formal, frozen letter,
so precisely to the point that it might have been printed; and for that matter, its clear, firm, uptight characters were
not unlike print.
    Oh, you will find no difficulty! said Mr. Miles cheerfully. I know Lady Thwaite quite well, and will introduce you if
you like. She is not a hard person to get on with, and she neighbourhood, which, in the sence of society, is not extensive
the less reason for you to withdrew into a shell. Let me oppose that line with all the weight you will allow me .
It never did any man or woman good to shun his or her kind, and hold them at arm's length; any amonnt of difficulties
and rubbing the wrong way is preferable. Lady Thawaite means to be gracious, and it will not do for you I speak as your
friend and senior by thirty years to meet her advances ungraciously. You must condone all former neglect, or anything
that strikes you as forward in the present overture. I will confess to you that I do not give her credit for the
finest perceptions or the most exquisite tact. But the world, which is not too nice in its tastes, does not agree with me.
It counts her as pleasent and clever as she is good-natured, and votes her its greatest popularity. She is certainly
good-natured, but she can be offended, though she is not very spiteful. She might do you harm by driving her pair of
ponies all over the country, and airing her rebuff in the spirit of an accomplished gossip, who finds food for her calling
everywhere. She can treat the matter either as a grievance or as a good joke, which would be rather the worst treatment of
the two.
    I don't care a rap, cried Sir William, swelling a little with indignation; she may, if she likes, for me. I shall be
a poor creature indeed, if I mind what a parcel of old women say.
    Softly, softly, my dear fellow! asserted Mr. Miles, seeking to keep the peace. No man can afford to be so indepentent.
In the second place, Lady Thwaite is not an ol woman. What put such a shocking idea into your head? I shall be surprised
if you take her for more than five-and-twenty about your own age when you see her. In reality she is a handsome, well-
preserved woman between five-and-thirty and forty no more.
    I shall think the worse of her if she is made up to look what she is not, like a horse at a fair, said Sir William a
little doggedly, and with brutal plain speaking, as a recollection flashed across his mind of his sister jen, with her
spare, worn figure and face, and her patches of grey hair. Where had he read for this ex-sergeant had been given to reading
in his wiser moments of such ashen patches as flakes of heaven's sunshine?
    You must remember she has a claim upon your forbearance, represented Mr. Miles adroitly, not noticing the evullition
    which smelt of the hole whence Sir William had been dug. Your first impulse to regard it as good of her to wrire to
you was not altogether wrong. poor soul! the fate of her boy cut her up considerably.
    Very well, I'll go and see her if that will be of any use. I expect that is what it will come to, said Sir William,
as if he were submitting to a disagreeable necessity.
    Mr.Miles had to be content with the concession. Holding intercourse with Sir william at this date partook a good deal
of the nature of a one-handed conversation, and the one-handedness seemed to increase when the only share of the host in
the post-prandial conviviality consisted in passing the decanters, which Sir William was scrupulous to do. The situation
began to get intolerably heavy to a town-bred man accustomed to a heavy to a town-bred man accustomed to a very different
description of dining out something that he was used to regard complacently as having to do with 'the feast of reason and
the flow of soul.'
    The cub is not a bad cub, he grumbled, 'but I hope Lady Thwaite, or some one else, will have licked him into shape,
so as to render him livelier, before I visit Whitehills again. Funeral baked meats would be a hilarious entertainment in
comparison with this orgy on entering into possesion.'
    As a little variety after coffee had been sent in, Mr. Miles proposed a stroll in the dusk, comforted by the sense
that things would not be so unsocial, since Sir William had not abjured a pipe along with a glass.
    The two men went as far as one of the park gates, and stood leaning over, looking into the darkening high-road. It
was as empty as most country roads at the season and hour, when all at once a close carriage appeared in the distance,
looming along. Mr. Miles grew quite excited by this little adventure, though it was hardly within the bounds of possibility
that it could bring other visitors to Whitehills. As the carriage drew nearer he had, at least, the satisfaction of
announcing that he knew it. It was one of the Lambford carriages; he had seen the liveries when he was down at whitehills
before. Lady Fermor must have been at Knotley to her banker or shopping. The old lady still did her business for herself,
though it was a mercy to think she was too old for much which had her earlier career notorious.
    Mr.Miles's scandal against Queen Elizabeth was brought to an abrupt conclusion. The carriage stopped, the coachman kept
his post, while a groom alighted. Presently it became evident that Lady Fermor wished the lamps lit before she proceeded
farther, and that the groom was bound for the porter's lodge to get a light. For anything that the two lookers- on knew,
they might be unseen by the occupants of teh carriage. But it did not accord with Mr.Miles's old-fashioned politeness to remain
hedden while he could help a lady. He had met Lady Fermor at old meets and hunting breakfasts at Lambford. He opened
the gate, stepped brickly forward, leaving Sir William behind, and went up, hat in hand, to the window, which had been
drawn down.
    Can I do anything for you, Lady Fermor? he asked with the civility of a man of the world. I dare say you have forgotten me.
My name is Miles. At one time I was often down from town on law business of poor Sir John's and I had the pleasure of getting
a little sport and enjoying Lord Fermor's hospitality when the scent held and we could get a run across country. Lady Fermor's
old head, in a somewhat juvenile bonnest, was thrust out of the window at once. Hauteur or reserve had never been among her
faults.
    I remember you perfectly, Mr. Miles. I am glad to renew our acquaintance. will you be so good as to see that my groom
lights the lamps so that one or other does not go out after the first hundred yards? I have been to Knotley, and stayed
too long let myself be benighted like a dissipated old woman. But what brings you down here just now? Is it anything
about your new clown of a baronet?
    Hush ! he is just behind me. Mr.Miles was forced to warn her.
    There, bring him forward at once and present him to me, and to my grand- daughter. Iris is in that corner. Are you
awake, child? Were you ever introduced to Mr. Miles?
    I think not; but I shall be happy to undergo the ceremony now, answered a fresh young voice.
    Many thanks for the permission, Miss Compton; but, it you please, We'll agree to defer the ceremony along with the
presentation to Sir William. I can scarcely see you two ladies. We are only just come. The time is not propitious; let
us wait for another and a happier day.
    Mr.Miles retreated on the plea of giving some directions about the lamps.
    I am not going to be the man to introduce Jezebel to him, he was resolving. Let us be thankful she has, in a great measure
outlived her sorceries and power of ruin; but they say she has taken to play in her age, like the most accomplished
performer at Homburg in its worst days, or Monte Carlo. I believe the grand-daughter, poor thing ! is a nice girl to
have come out of so bad a nest, still pursuing his reflections.
    Mr. Miles was hampered by the fear that Lady Fermor's personal remark might have reached the young man; but as the
carriage disappeared in the darkness from which it had emerged, and the lawyer rejoined his companion, he felt bound to
deliver his testimony that danger had been near.
    Sir William anticipated him by a remark in which a shade of doubt and discontent was just audible.
    I thought you said the Fermors were a bad lot.
    A shocking bad lot, so far as Lord and Lady Fermor go, corroborated Mr. Miles emphatically.
    And yet you are quite thick with them Them pupil suddenly turned the tables on his Mentor, still with the suspicion
of mystification and annoyance in his manner.
    Not thick in your sense, answered Mr. Miles promptly; not more than common courtesy demands. I am sorry that your
nearest neighbours are the Fermors, Sir William. He, poor old wretch, may be reckoned nowhere now;  but she well, she
forfeited her place in ladies society ages ago. She has, in course of nature, given up hunting, and there are no more
hunting breakfasts, or stud denners, or elections banquets at Lambford. The place used to be a great rearingground for
hunters; and both host and hostess went in strongly for politcs at least, as far as the hurly-burly of elecrions. You will
not come across him, and you may not encounter her; which, let me tell you, will be no loss for any young man who wishes
to keep himself straight and avoid temptation. It is my duty to make you acquainted with the rumour that high play goes
on whenever she can call up the ghost of company at Lambford.
    Does nobody go near her, then? said Sir William, dwelling on the isolation. The sharp ears of his adviser detected
that it had a fascination for a lad who might be a pariah in his own person. Mr. Miles was induced verity.
    Oh, not so bad as that! She raised with reason the hue and cry of the world against her, but it is an old, half-forgotten
story: she has lived long enough to survive her punishment so far. The household at Lambford has been outwardly quiet
enough for a dozen years. If people choose to lose money over napoleon or vingt-et-un, or no worse than whist, it is entirely
their own doing, and is quite another matter from a public scandal. They say she is kind to poor old Lord Fermor. There
has never been a word against Miss Compton, the grand-daughter, and she is likely to inherit her grandmother's savings
although there are other grandchildren, not Comptons Dugdales and Powells, the children of two daughteres of Ladv Fermor
has teken up her relations, or they have taken up her, again of late years. Even Lord Fermor's heir-at-law does not hold
it wise to keep up a quarrel with the present mistress of the house. Lady Fermor, at her worst, maintained what I should
call a brazen adherence to her Church whatever it had to say to her, and I have no doubt subscribes handsomely to parish
charities; so her rector and rectoress, with their staff, must extend a certain amount of countenance and support to her:
Whether or not they regard her in the light of an interesting penitent, I cannot tell. Between the oblivion into which her
past is falling, forbearance with her as an old woman, and pity for an innocent victim like Miss Compton, there is some
amount of neighbourly amnesty. If I remember rightly, I have heard Lady Thwaite say she called at Lambford and had Miss
Compton with her, though Sir John was not too well pleased. Her ladyship pretended that he wished to keep the acquaintance
for his own entertainment, while she could not see that she was bound to know scandal which had happened before she was
born. Shall we drive over to the quarries I told you of to-morrow, Sir William?
                CHAPTER 6
Lady Fermor was a bad woman; she had been a bad daughter and sister, a bad wife, mother, and grandmother. She had been
weighed and found wanting in every relation. Lord Fermor was not her first husband, neither was she his first wife. It
had only been after passing through the divorce court in a specially scandalous suit that she had attained her present
position.
    But that was half a century ago, years prior to the birth of Iris Compton's mother, Lady Fermor. For many a long day
For many a long day the respectable word refused absolutely to condone the heinous offence. But time will serve to
obliterate the blackest stains, and two facts were in Lady Fermor's favour. The sinner had for a period, which was
equivalent to a moderately long lifetime, refrained from her old sins against moral and social laws, and she was now an
aged woman. These facts upheld self-interest, easy-minded tolerance, and charity in granting some renewal of the lady's
passport to mix with other than the utterly respect far removed from the shifting inhabitants of a great town, Lady Fermor
had neighbours nowadays who in the rising of new generations, the necessary prohibition of some topics from free discussion,
and the reluctance of honourable people to touch pitch and be defiled, knew nothing further of the mistress of Lambford
than that there had been something wrong where she was concerned, long, long ago, someting which was better kept out of
hearing, and gradually lost sight of.
    Lady Fermor was too wise a woman not to avail herself of the slow, shy relenting. though she felt more contemptuous
of it than granteful for it. She had never cared for the members of her own sex, while she had always been able to be on
hail-fellow-well-met terms with a wide circle of men, so long as she was young enough to love company and enjoy her part
in it. Such was the law of the world in which she lived. Nevertheless there was a small triumph to Lady Fermor in surmounting
What she considered milk-and-water and brad-and-butter scruples. Besides, it was desirable for Iris, her grand-daughter,
for whom her guardian had some consideration though little affection, that she should have the entrance to respectable
houses presided over by women on whose reputations suspicion had not so much as breathed.
    Lady Fermor had not secured the last boon for her daughter, Iris's mother; she had moved in none but the most Bohemian
sets, and as a natural result had married ill, in every light save a worldly one, at her mother's instigation. She had led a
wretched life, in which even



